ADAPTED FROM THE NOVEL ZHU YU
BY TUAN ZI LAI XI ON JJWXC.NET
The Crown Prince's son
is still alive, correct?
Yes.
He now lives
as Prince Changxin's eldest son.
Sui Yuanhuai.
Who gave you permission
to light a fire in this courtyard?
Are your eyes useless?
Dig her eyes out.
Spare me, Master!
Get out!
Yes, madam.
You dared strike me?
Over a lowly servant?
In your eyes,
am I worth less than a slave?
I just didn't want
more blood on your hands.
She is a pitiful soul. And so are you.
After the Jinzhou tragedy,
Princess Changxin brought her
eldest son, Sui Yuanhuai, into the palace
to accompany the widowed Crown Princess.
But then a fire broke out
in the Eastern Palace.
The Crown Princess
and her son both perished
in that blaze.
Prince Changxin's eldest son
was badly burned.
After that, he vanished from public life.
So the real Sui Yuanhuai…
Most likely died in that fire
at the Eastern Palace
17 years ago.
You call me pitiful?
Are you not?
You are selfish, cruel,
vicious, and unpredictable.
Everyone who serves you
lives in constant fear.
One misstep and they die.
All of this is just your disguise.
You are hiding your fear.
You are the one to be pitied.
You call me pitiful too.
That year,
when my mother pushed me into the brazier,
she said the same thing.
Mother!
Min.
This is the only way you can survive.
Mother!
‎VIRTUOUS AND GRACIOUS
Min.
You must live.
So all these years,
Prince Changxin never suspected
his eldest son had been replaced.
He always said
the eldest son never grew close to him.
But what father would doubt his own child?
After the burns, our Master changed a lot.
That seemed only natural.
Yet a father's instinct
made him dislike the boy from the start.
In the end, the heir's title
went to the second son, Sui Yuanqing.
Which means
Sui Yuanqing's appearance in Lin'an
was part of Qi Min's plan?
The Crown Prince's son, Qi Min,
knew you were in Lin'an.
He wanted to use your hand
to get rid of Sui Yuanqing.
At the time,
the Chongzhou army was still strong.
If they had taken Jizhou,
they could have marched south
straight into the imperial palace.
The emperor could have
been forced to abdicate.
But Sui Yuanqing is the rightful heir.
If the throne changed hands,
it would be his.
That is why
Qi Min was determined to see him dead.
My mother spent her entire life
scheming for the Eastern Palace.
Yet in the end she met a tragic fate.
Qi Min even sought to kill his own son.
Crown Prince Chengde,
renowned for loyalty and righteousness,
yet his son became a usurper
who stole another man's place.
Cold-blooded and ruthless.
What strange fate Lin'an holds.
First it sheltered Marquis Wu'an.
Now it hides
the Eastern Palace's last heir.
And Yu Qianqian…
She is no ordinary either, is she?
The Marquis and Mr. Gongsun
are both correct.
The proprietress of Yixiang Restaurant
is the concubine who fled from Qi Min.
Yu Bao'er
is the imperial great grandson.
You have no idea
what torment and suffering
I endured to survive
until today.
And so you pass that suffering
onto others?
I was born
the most exalted son under heaven.
The throne of Dayin
should have been mine.
And yet now,
I must live on under a revolting identity,
barely clinging to life.
If Qi Min ever takes the throne,
the people will suffer greatly.
Marquis, you are a hero without equal.
If you were willing to support
the imperial great grandson
in claiming the throne,
it would be a blessing
for the people of the realm.
Seventeen years ago,
the Jinzhou massacre.
How much do you know?
Not much.
But Qi Min
may know the truth.
Crown Prince Chengde,
who died in Jinzhou,
was your father.
Yes.
I set all this up
to force Prince Changxin into rebellion.
Only then could I seize back
the realm that rightfully mine.
Wei Yan
and everyone who destroyed my family
must all die.
But how can you possibly defeat
Wei Yan and Marquis Wu'an?
Even if I lose,
I'll make sure Xie, Wei,
and Prince Changxin all suffer in pain.
Even if I were to die,
others would die in my place.
What do you mean?
I have leverage over Prince Changxin.
This tiger tally is the proof
of what truly happened
in the Jinzhou massacre.
This tally does not match.
It is fake.
Your Highness, the tiger tally is genuine.
Please dispatch the troops at once.
Crown Prince Chengde and General Xie
cannot hold out much longer.
Jinzhou is about to fall!
Why tell me all this?
Are you not afraid I might betray you?
Because I know
you are my woman.
You would never betray me.
Up you go.
Uncle Yan,
I miss my mother very much.
But I know
now is not the time to get her out.
Do not worry.
I have sent people to look for her.
We will find her.
Once I do,
I will send you to reunite with Ning.
How does that sound?
Changning made it safely back to Jizhou?
What about Aunt Fan?
They are both doing well.
Do not worry.
They will return safely to Lin'an.
Off you go.
Marquis,
we must depart for Lucheng at once.
Prince Changxin's forces
will likely reach Lucheng soon.
Pass the order.
-Break camp. We march for Lucheng.
-Yes, Marquis.
Someone!
Go find the madam.
Master, the madam is gone.
I was just about to report it.
But we could not wake you.
That wretched woman.
She dared not poison me to death,
but who knows what drug she gave me.
BOUNDARY OF LUCHENG, JIZHOU PREFECTURE
Lucheng.
Beyond here is Lucheng territory.
Someone's there.
Qian!
Changyu!
Changyu.
How did you get out?
We were about to go look for you.
As if I'd sit there and wait to die.
We have to go.
Qi Min will be here any moment.
Trying to run?
Where can you go?
Fan Changyu.
You actually managed to track me here.
Foolish perhaps,
but I admire your courage.
Kill them all. Leave only the madam alive.
He Jingyuan.
General Xie Qi. How did you find me?
The Marquis ordered me
to protect you in secret.
He feared danger when you reached Lucheng.
So he asked General He
to come meet us here.
Drop your weapons.
Surrender now!
He Jingyuan,
you think I would fear you?
Sui Yuanhuai, do you truly think
you can fight ten men alone?
If you want her alive,
then you will have to kill me first.
Withdraw now,
or I will kill myself right here.
Fall back!
It is all right now. Everything is fine.
Changyu.
I thought I would never see you again.
Every day, I was thinking
of how to escape.
I never thought I'd succeed.
You are incredible.
Where is Bao'er?
Bao'er was taken away by Nanny Lan.
But Nanny Lan has already…
General, the guards around Sui Yuanhuai
are all elite fighters.
Even though we had the numbers,
we could not gain the upper hand.
The Chongzhou troops who came
to support them covered their retreat.
That man is cunning.
He must have left himself a way out.
As for Bao'er's whereabouts now,
I truly do not know.
Bao'er has always been fortunate.
He will be safe.
Lucheng lies just ahead.
Since we have come this far,
we can discuss the rest
once we return to Lucheng.
Thank you for your help, General He.
JIZHOU PREFECTURAL OFFICE
HE, JIZHOU YAMEN
General.
Changyu.
My respects, General.
Thank you for saving us yesterday.
No need for thanks.
The entire army is talking about it.
They say you killed Shi Hu
with three hammer blows.
Is that true?
Two blows.
‎HALL OF LETTERS
I have always been fond of martial arts.
Would you spar with me for a few moves?
My skills are nothing impressive.
How could they possibly
compare with yours?
Whether they can or not,
we will find out soon enough.
Come.
Give it everything you have.
Do not hold back.
‎LOYAL AND RESOLUTE
SEVENTEEN YEARS AGO
Do you know where the weakness was
in that last move?
Please enlighten me.
You have practiced
the skill pattern for many years.
It's become rigid.
You complete one move,
then follow with the next.
But on the battlefield,
an enemy's attacks shift in an instant.
If one strike fails,
you must change immediately.
Predictable patterns are easily read.
Once they see through you,
you lose your composure.
Thank you for the guidance.
But this technique
was taught to me by my father.
He never showed his skills
in front of outsiders.
So, how is it
that you know it so well
and can counter every move?
Your father and I
were old friends.
Jingyuan,
your spear skills have improved a lot.
You are no less formidable than before.
Any disciple for your spear?
Qilin, are you mocking me again
for being a lonely bachelor?
How could I possibly compare with you?
A virtuous wife and a dutiful daughter.
Are you planning
to pass your blade technique
to that little girl of yours?
Whether that girl
inherits my blade technique
remains to be seen.
But
the way she runs around,
so bold and fiery,
she carries my spirit already.
She is like you already?
That is terrible news.
If she turns out like you,
how will she ever find a husband?
She takes after her mother.
Beautiful as can be.
But her bones and build take after me.
If she truly inherits my blade technique,
then in this world,
there will be no man worthy of her.
My father never mentioned any of this.
And he was just a butcher in Lin'an.
How could he possibly
have been friends with a general?
It is a long story.
Once the siege of Lucheng is lifted,
I will tell you everything.
General.
Our army has never had a female officer.
So I thought
the standard armor might not fit you well.
I had this armor specially made for you.
May it accompany you
as you earn glory and win great victories.
Thank you, General.
The last time I gifted someone armor
was nearly 30 years ago.
Sadly,
that man is no longer with us.
Your old friend
must have been a hero
who died on the battlefield.
Though he did not fall
amid flying sand and clashing blades,
he stopped an unjust army.
For the sake of the people under heaven,
he sacrificed himself.
In the end,
all that remained were the bones
of a loyal man.
My father once said
everyone must die someday.
But if your life
can bring some good to the living,
then it was not lived in vain.
Please do not grieve too deeply,
General.
I heard Teacher was sparring
with the heroine who killed Shi Hu.
I rushed over,
hoping to learn a thing or two.
Menkan.
I knew it was you
the moment I heard your voice.
I had a feeling it was you.
So? Finished already?
Who won?
Since when
did you start calling yourself Menkan?
Sir, please don't laugh at me.
Wenkan, Menkan, that's both me.
It is merely a name.
Did I say something wrong?
Call me whatever you like. I do not mind.
Li Huai'an.
Li Menkan.
Commandant Li.
Scholars really do have so many names.
My adoptive father just gave me
a courtesy name too.
You mean Grand Tutor Tao?
Grand Tutor Tao?
Since when did he become
your adoptive father?
Just recently.
He even gave me a courtesy name.
It is…
"Shanjun".
Which means tigress.
From now on,
everyone can call me Tiger Fan.
Have you been settling in well
in the camp?
I never expected you to be so formidable.
You have earned merit again and again.
You might even outshine
Marquis Wu'an someday.
He is coming to Lucheng too?
It's army business, so I do know.
Xie Zheng has been avoiding
the enemy's scouts and interference.
He likely took a longer route.
But he should arrive in a few days.
Earlier, General He told me
that he and my father were old friends.
Do you know anything about that?
I wanted to ask more,
but he would not say much.
My grandfather once told me
that my father only survived in Lin'an
by living under the name Fan Erniu.
But the Jizhou records clearly stated
that my father was just a butcher
killed by bandits.
Why do I feel
as if everyone is lying to me,
yet everything they say
also sounds true?
If Master He did not
wish to go into detail,
he must have his reasons.
But the fact that he called
your father a friend
is proof enough
that your father must have been
a remarkable man.
Hearing that from you
makes me feel better.
Lucheng is a beautiful place.
Do you think it will soon
end up like Lin'an,
consumed by war?
It's time for you to return to Lin'an.
Changning and Mrs. Zhao
are waiting for you at home.
I can go home?
I'll have someone escort you out
in a few days.
All right.
I observed the stars tonight.
The Martial Star has dimmed.
The Breaking Star drags its shadow.
The omens over Lucheng
foretell bloodshed within three days.
We should first launch a feint.
Draw out the enemy's main force.
Then finish with a final move
and lure them straight into the trap.
The omens may say so,
but in my view,
we should gather all our strength
and strike at the heart.
Take down Prince Changxin.
As expected of you, Xie Jiuheng.
Straight to the point.
Others might have the thought,
but not the nerve.
Shi Yue might suspect it,
but he'd never expect it.
The problem is, this plan
would leave Lucheng's gates wide open.
The city may not hold.
Go inform General He.
I have to say, the fish here are huge.
Right? Big ones. Here,
throw in some herbs
to cut the fishy smell.
You asking for a beating?
Father,
-how did you know we were here?
-Let it roast a bit first.
Naturally, I came to wait
for the fish to bite.
Did you come to ask me
whether I still want to stay in the army?
The way you say that,
does it mean you regret it?
Do you want this old man to teach you
how to stand against 10,000
on the battlefield?
Yes.
And no.
What kind of answer is that?
Hopeless child.
Father,
it is not that I refuse
to stay in the army.
I just do not want
to lead troops into battle anymore.
I do not want to watch people
die before my eyes.
Changyu just wants to go back to Lin'an
and live like an ordinary person.
-Why are you pushing her?
-Exactly.
All of you are kind-hearted people.
But that is only small kindness.
When the nest is overturned,
how can any egg remain unbroken?
The massacre at Lin'an
is proof enough.
When Prince Changxin rebels
and marches south,
he kills.
When the imperial army
moves to suppress him,
they kill as well.
Changyu,
think about it carefully.
What is the difference between the two?
All I know
is the soldiers I killed
might have been just like us
before all these.
Just ordinary folks
who were forced onto the battlefield.
Once war begins,
what difference is there
between soldiers and commoners?
War drains the state's strength.
The cost of supporting one soldier
comes from the labor of ten civilians.
The longer the war drags on,
the harder life becomes for the people.
Starving bodies line the roads.
Refugees wander from place to place.
That is why it is said,
in war, victory matters, not duration.
If a war can be ended quickly
with the fewest casualties,
then even those who kill
may still be doing the greater good.
Take this to defend yourself.
Your butcher's knife was already worn out.
So I melted it down and reforged it
into these twin blades.
I have never properly
given you a gift before.
These blades suit you perfectly.
You did give me something before.
The bracers you gave me were very nice.
Why do I smell blood?
-You are hurt.
-No.
Just an old injury.
Liar. You were perfectly fine
a few days ago.
Why would it flare up today?
Let me see.
They are only small wounds.
If you won't let me see, leave.
How did you get hurt?
Who did this to you?
I used my blood…
to consecrate it.
Are you out of your mind?
You have read too many storybooks.
You think I'd be moved to tears?
If you ever do that again,
I will buy a hundred blades
for you to bleed on.
If your arm runs out, use your backside.
Changyu,
do you remember
when we were at the Wu River camp,
and I told you to hunt down
those three scouts?
If you had shown mercy
and let them go,
then the one to suffer
would have been Lucheng.
And the dead would have been far more
than just one or a few.
I understand now.
Thank you for the guidance.
Madam,
the falcon brought a message.
The Marquis has found Yu Bao'er
and sent him to Lin'an.
That is wonderful.
Now Qian can return to Lin'an
and reunite with Bao'er.
We should pack as well.
We leave tomorrow morning.
Yes.
I just paid a visit to General He.
I heard that you and Mrs. Fan
will soon return to Lin'an.
So I came to see you.
Changyu already told me.
Thank you, and the Marquis,
for saving Bao'er.
I'm deeply grateful.
-Please allow me to bow.
-No, no.
Ms. Yu, please do not be so formal. Sit.
Changyu spoke of you before.
With the great battle approaching,
you would not have come
unless it was something important.
Indeed.
Leave us.
The eldest son of Prince Changxin,
or rather, the former Crown Prince's son.
How much do you know about him?
Knowing him was nothing
but a cursed entanglement.
When he nearly drowned,
I pitied him and saved him
by giving him breath
mouth-to-mouth.
I never thought that kindness
-would bring all this trouble.
-Giving him breath…
He possesses a tiger tally.
He claims it proves
Prince Changxin intends to rebel.
But as far as I know,
Prince Changxin does not know
his true identity.
A tiger tally?
They're estranged.
He harbors deep resentment
toward Prince Changxin.
He has been plotting to force
Prince Changxin into rebellion,
so he can seize the throne himself.
No wonder he wanted Yu Bao'er dead.
If he plans to seize the throne
through Prince Changxin's rebellion,
he would never allow
another rightful heir to remain alive.
Thank you for telling me this.
The situation is urgent.
I must take my leave.
Farewell.
Ms. Yu.
What kind of technique
is that mouth-to-mouth breathing?
It is only a folk remedy from my hometown.
You breathe into the patient's mouth,
then press on the chest.
It can save a life.
I see.
It is also mentioned
in Treatise on Cold Damage.
Though the method
of mouth-to-mouth breathing
is somewhat different.
Still, such contact between men and women
could be seen as improper.
Your righteousness is admirable.
I've learned much today. Farewell.
Wenkan.
Marquis Wu'an plans to lead
the main force of the Yanzhou army
straight to Prince Changxin's
command camp in Luocheng.
Luocheng is the prince's main base.
It will be heavily guarded.
How could the Marquis win
with so few troops?
That is why I want you
to personally lead 3,000 elite soldiers.
Split them into several detachments
to cover the Marquis
while he strikes their command.
Only then will we have a chance.
But within Lucheng,
if Yanzhou and Xie forces are gone,
you've only got 5,000 men.
Now you're giving me 3,000,
how will you hold up here in Lucheng?
Even if all 5,000 stayed,
do you think they could hold off
Prince Changxin's 50,000 troops?
The battle for Lucheng
must rely on an unexpected strike.
Do not worry.
Lucheng
will not fall while I'm here.
Zhenwei Commandant of Jizhou,
Li Huai'an, accepts the order.
It is such a relief
that Bao'er has been found.
All thanks to Yan Zheng.
I will never forget this kindness.
Mrs. Fan,
look who it is.
Changyu.
Kang Xiaodan! What are you doing here?
Lord Li heard I was from Lin'an,
so he told me to return with you.
I also heard about my grandmother.
Thank you for laying her to rest.
We are all from Lin'an.
No need for thanks.
Perfect timing. We can head back together.
General,
we are about to depart.
I wish you a great victory.
I will wait for your good news.
If fate allows us to meet again,
I hope you will answer my questions.
If Heaven allows me to survive this battle
and stand with Lucheng,
then I will tell you everything I know.
Thank you.
Let's go.
Jingyuan, the northwest frontier is harsh.
Jinzhou, Chongzhou, and Jizhou
are especially barren.
You must take care when you go there.
A real man should earn
his merit in battle.
That is far better
than staying in the capital
bowing and scraping
to flatter the powerful.
A pity. I will not live
to see your son born.
It will be a daughter.
You prefer a girl?
Jingyuan,
you have read more books than I have.
Help me give my daughter a name.
Why not let your master name the child?
He is too important.
I fear it would overwhelm the child.
Let me think.
What name would suit her?
Changyu.
-Changyu?
-Yes.
May she forever bask in her parents' love,
like jade steps
fragrant with spring grass.
What do you think?
Excellent. That is a wonderful name.
LUCHENG
Qilin,
you raised a fine daughter.
Loyal, righteous, and fearless.
I truly envy you.
The longer the war drags on,
the harder life becomes for the people.
Starving bodies line the roads.
Refugees wander from place to place.
If a war can be ended quickly
with the fewest casualties,
then even those who kill
may still be doing the greater good.
Our army has never had a female officer.
I had this armor specially made for you.
May it accompany you
as you earn glory and win great victories.
The last time I felt this uneasy
was 17 years ago, at Jinzhou.
Beat the drums. Assemble the troops.
-Beat the drums! Assemble the troops!
LUCHENG
Off you go.
Stop the carriage.
Soldiers of the Jizhou army!
Present!
While the city stands, I stand!
If the city falls, I fall with it!
-While the city stands, we stand!
-If the city falls, we fall with it!
Qian.
General Xie Qi
will escort you safely back to Lin'an,
where you can reunite
with Ning and Bao'er.
But I must stay. My fate is with Lucheng.
Mrs. Fan,
leave the battlefield to the Marquis.
Trust in the Marquis
and the strategist's plans.
They will surely hold Lucheng.
Besides, Ning is still waiting
for you at home.
I have seen battle.
I know how terrifying war can be.
But I also know
that if Lucheng falls,
Jizhou will be next.
And if Jizhou falls,
the rebels will storm the capital.
When that happens, this vast world
will have no place left for me to hide.
Where would Ning hide?
Where would the people
of Lin'an hide?
You have my support.
You are the bravest
and most formidable woman I have ever met.
If this is your choice,
then stay.
Do not worry about me.
Once I return to Lin'an,
I will take care of Ning,
Mrs. Zhao, and the others.
If you must go,
then go without hesitation.
Do not worry. We are going with her.
Behind us,
we have Lin'an to defend.
Changyu.
I will go with you.
Count us in.
We are coming too.
Changyu, I used to be a coward.
I only wanted to go home
to my grandmother.
But she is gone now.
All I want is to avenge her.
Changyu, you are not alone.
I will go with you!
I will go too!
Me too!
Soldiers.
I, Fan Changyu, swear this before you all.
I will stand with Lucheng to the very end!
-To the very end!
Defend Lucheng! Live or die with the city!
SUI
MARQUIS WU'AN
Marquis Wu'an,
I have been waiting for you.
Today, we settle this
once and for all.
Such arrogance.
Do you truly think you are capable of it?
Soldiers, hear my command!
Bring me Prince Changxin's head!
Charge!
Kill!
NO ANIMALS WERE HARMED
IN THE MAKING OF THIS EPISODE
‎Subtitle translation by: Jiaxin Wang